+++
title = "Ph.D. @ ETHz"
author = ["Andrés Navarro Pedregal"]
date = 2024-08-30T00:00:00+02:00
tags = ["ethz"]
draft = false
+++

TODO Need to subdivide this notes into different ones, specifically research proposal

"A doctorate is research at the cutting edge of science and technology and proves that you can complete a project on your own in a given time" - [AVETH team](https://www.aveth.ethz.ch/aveth-survival-guide/1-preface-and-introduction/) at the ETH


## Motives and Implications {#motives-and-implications}

A doctoral degree is essential if one wants to stay in academia on the path to a senior researcher position or even a professorship.

A doctorate takes a great deal of self-motivation and means a lot of work and constant reflection.

Only recommendation is to **choose a subject that you are actually interested in** and a **supervisor with whom you feel to have a good relationship and communication**.
The **style of management of your supervisor needs to be compatible with your style of work**.


## Searching for a Supervisor {#searching-for-a-supervisor}

The supervisor is both your mentor (is the one assessing you and helping you advance in your research career) and your boss.

It is best to do research on the future supervisor and ask others that have worked with the supervisor.

But first it is most important to know the areas of research you are interested in and then find the supervisor that is aligned with it.


### Initial Contact {#initial-contact}

When contacting a supervisor for the first time, it is crucial that you know **what their group is working on, what their biggest achievements are, and what their most recent publications are about**.

For a formal approach, bring a letter of motivation, two recommendation letters, and a copy of your thesis.
It is important to have an **idea or proposal for a project or research direction**.


### Job Interview {#job-interview}

During the interview, the supervisor whats to find out what type of person you are scientifically, academically, and personally.
Also, you must assess the supervisor, the group, and whether you would like to work there.

To prepare for the job interview:

1.  Ask in advance what kind of questions you will be asked during the job interview.
2.  Read about the current research and scientific interest and recent publications by the group.
3.  (if requested) Prepare a presentation to reflect your scientific contributions and personality.
4.  Ask some members of the group what to expect from the job interview.
5.  Prepare a list of questions to ask.
6.  Dress in clean and neutral clothing.
7.  Be honest, you don't need to exaggerate, lie, or neglect important facts that can be grounds for dismissal.

During the interview, get clarification on:

1.  Who will be your direct supervisor and which colleges you will work with on a daily basis.
2.  Your research, projects, milestones, and general timeline.
3.  Working area and additional lab duties.
4.  Teaching duties and their full extent.
5.  Inquire about the salary of the department/institute/group. How long is your salary guaranteed for? Does your professor require you to bring your own funding?
6.  Ask about "extended doctoral studies" and access to doctoral networks, workshops, and conferences.
7.  Expected working hours and holiday periods.

They do not have to be clarified in the first interview, but certainly before signing the contract.


## Research Proposal {#research-proposal}

It must include an abstract, introduction and current state of research in the field, progress of work to date and objectives, detailed work plan, timetable, and references.


### Goals {#goals}

-   Relevance: show why your project is interesting, original, and important.
-   Context: Demonstrate your comfort and familiarity with your field. Show that you understand the current state of research on your topic.
-   Approach: Make a case for your methodology. Demonstrate that you have carefully thought about the data, tools, and procedures necessary to conduct your research.
-   Achievability: Confirm that your project is feasible within the timeline of your program or funding deadline.


### Steps {#steps}

TODO


### Parts {#parts}

1.  Title and Abstract
    -   Choose a concise and descriptive title that reflects the essence of your research.
    -   Write an abstract summarizing your research question, objectives, methodology, and expected outcomes. It should provide a brief overview of your proposal.

2.  Introduction:
    -   Provide an introduction to your research topic, highlighting its significance and relevance.
    -   Clearly state the research problem or question you aim to address.
    -   Discuss the background and context of the study, including previous research in the field.

3.  Literature Review:
    -   Conduct a comprehensive review of relevant literature and studies related to your research topic.
    -   Summarize key findings, identify gaps, and highlight how your research will contribute to the existing knowledge.

4.  Research Objectives
    -   Outline the specific objectives or aims of your research. These objectives should be clear, achievable, and aligned with the research problem.

5.  Methodology:
    -   Describe the research design and methodology you plan to employ to address your research objectives.
    -   Explain the data collection methods, instruments, and analysis techniques you will use.
    -   Justify why the chosen methods are appropriate and suitable for your research.

6.  Timeline:
    -   Create a timeline or schedule that outlines the major milestones and activities of your research project.
    -   Break down the research process into smaller tasks and estimate the time required for each task.

7.  Resources:
    -   Identify the resources needed for your research, such as access to specific databases, equipment, or funding.
    -   Explain how you will acquire or utilize these resources to carry out your research effectively.

8.  Ethical Considerations:
    -   Discuss any ethical issues that may arise during your research and explain how you plan to address them.
    -   If your research involves human subjects, explain how you will ensure their informed consent and privacy.

9.  Expected Outcomes and Significance:
    -   Clearly state the expected outcomes or results of your research.
    -   Highlight the potential impact and significance of your research in advancing knowledge or addressing practical issues.

10. References:
    -   Provide a list of all the references cited in your proposal, following a consistent citation style (e.g., APA, MLA).

11. Appendices:
    -   Include any additional supporting materials, such as survey questionnaires, interview guides, or data analysis plans.


### Other info {#other-info}

Find more information in the [Scribbr site](https://www.scribbr.com/research-process/research-proposal/) or in the [GradCoach](https://gradcoach.com/how-to-write-a-dissertation-proposal/).
Or check the [Research Plan guidelines of the Informatics Department of ETH](https://ethz.ch/content/dam/ethz/special-interest/infk/department/Images%20and%20Content/Studies/Doctoral-Studies/ResearchPlans_Guidelines.pdf).


## Welcome to Zurich, once accepted {#welcome-to-zurich-once-accepted}

Check out the [AVETH website](https://www.aveth.ethz.ch/aveth-survival-guide/3-welcome-to-zurich-switzerland/) for more.


## Networking in Academic Life {#networking-in-academic-life}

Find one or several colleagues with whom you can discuss your progress and who are willing to give personal feedback.
Be aware not to share sensitive details of your research to third parties, unless you discussed and agreed upon this with your supervisor.

Doctoral seminars, workshops or conferences are good opportunities to meet other researchers, talk about your own project and develop your personal sense of scientific quality.

Contact the author of a paper when you realize that they are working on the same/similar subject.
**Get to know your research field.**

Presenting your own work at a conference is a great chance to get the attention of others in your field, but also gauge their interest in your work and get feedback.
It will help you to find other people working on similar questions and allow you to discuss problems with them.


## [Teaching Assistant (TA)]({{< relref "20240823080125-teaching_assistant_ethz.md" >}}) {#teaching-assistant--ta----20240823080125-teaching-assistant-ethz-dot-md}


## Finishing the Doctorate {#finishing-the-doctorate}

Find more information in the [AVETH website](https://www.aveth.ethz.ch/7-finishing-the-doctorate/).
